AI Usage Journal
Arthur Nguyen 
anguye49@terpmail.umd.edu
Section 0302

Week 1:

My use of AI has been pretty minimal but I can recall that there were at least 3 exercises for this week in which I did have to rely on AI heavily. It is Question 10, Question 15, and Question 24. The AI I have used is Google Gemini. 
The reason why I needed to use AI for these three questions in particular is because I completely do not remember how to use slice and indexing on strings so I need a full explanation as to how they work again. Otherwise, for the rest of the assignment, I was able to recall these techniques fine or occassionally used Google Gemini for a refresher rather than a crutch. 

I use Google Gemini as it is the most convient and do not have much interest in using other AI models such as ChatGPT or Claude as I do not feel interested in visiting these websites to use them. Besides the advantage that Gemini has is that it is embeded into a search engine which means if I want to look for sources or answers, it will not be hard to get them and I will not need to prompt the AI to give me sources as Gemini provides them by default. 

Otherwise, I've just been using Gemini rather passively and have not relied on it for any other type of assignment as other classes do not allow me to use it. 


Week 2: 
I have used AI a whole lot more often than last week. Some of the Week 2 Excerises required me to completely rely on Google Gemini because of how stumped I was about trying to solve these excerises. I feel somewhat ashamed about it because I pride myself at being a student of integrity. 

Some of the questions that needed me to use AI were questions like 22. As these types of questions asked me a concept in which I completely have forgotten about or is hard to recall from lecture notes. 

Like before, Google Gemini is my go-to because of convience and effectiveness. It is the quickest way for me to get an answer. It is also the easiest way for me to explore or verify why my answer is correct and such. So far, I am not looking for reliability in AI but rather ease of use. This is why I do not use other models such as ChatGPT or any of the sort as I do not need AI to be powerful, I just need one that I can reach easily. 

However, there is one interesting encounter that I would like to share that is not related to this class. I signed up for INST364 and I eventually got kicked out of the course because I did not meet one of the prerequisites and now counts as an "XD" on my transcript. Upon researching what "XD" meant, I found a reddit thread where they jookingly said that it was a Differential and Integration variables and this answer actually got picked up by Microsoft CoPilot when my friend tried to search the answer themselves. To my knowledge, "XD" is an adminastrative drop. 

Week 3: 
I have become more reliant on AI as this week's excerise has become almost impossible for me to figure out on my own. Although I do have plans on attending office hours for assistance in aiding the excerises. I do think that the act of trying to make functions is rather hard. I say that because these functions involve many different complex actions such as looking through lists and tuples, which are concepts that I admittingly do not like. I find myself to be reliant on Google Gemini for this reason. 

Otherwise, I do not have any unique story to tell with Google Gemini as reiterated before, I use Google AI for convience and effectiveness. The fact that AI is integrated within the search engine makes it very easy to use as you will always run into it whenever you use Google. Granted, I have used Google AI to diagnois myself with body lice as I was extremely paranoid that I got infected when I visited South Campus Dining hall this weekend. I cannot say that is my prouder moments in using AI as I now realize that looking to the internet to diagnois illnesses is rather misleading and could lead to dangerous consequences. 

Week 4:
For the next assignment I have relied on AI for some select questions because they seem to be rather frustrating to solve. Despite this, I was able to complete the weekly excerises with little to no AI assitence. 

However we will discuss about the instances in which I have used AI to finish my excerises. Specifically on Excerise 15, I asked a TA for assistance on helping me figure out how ot program for the question and he ended up telling me to use AI to understand how what functions I should use as he introduced an external tool to help me. 

In the end of the day, I just used AI to verify whether or not what I put down is correct and do not use it to write the programs for me and I believe that it is more ethical to use AI this way. 

In other cases not related to this class, I have searched up about why my Photoshop license is about to expire and what came up was that Gemini AI lead me to the UMD IT page that shared news that UMD is in the middle of renewing their license with Adobe Creative Cloud so I do not have much to worry about. Despite these news, I believe I will still resort to making backups of my (side) projects on Photoshop, just in case if it turns out I may lose access to them. 

Week 5: 

For Monday, I only did maybe 7 or 8 of the excerises in the Week 5 Excerises and I remember only relying on AI for the second excerise specifically because I have no idea how the property and setters are supposed to be structured in this way. Otherwise for maybe like 6 of the excerises, I have used AI to verify my work or to debug my code and check up on whether or not the AI will work. 

My group has decided to brainstorm for the functions through ChatGPT, the functions are each given a purpose and also given variable names which I do not think are made up by the group and are instead prothesized by the AI instead. 

On the other hand for Tuesday, I have been using old code for the simplier functions and try to reverse engineer what I have made before in past projects and such. For the more complex code such as the parse_csv function, I practically relied on tutorials initially for the function and then I realized that I can make the code more complicated so I decided to make the function more of a self verification code. I decided to incorporate more features within the function such as importing os to detect directory and such. For such instructions, I did use Google Gemini to take some code and incorporate it within my own code. 

As for the last complex function, validate_experiment_parameters, I had to rely on AI completely as I have no idea where to start with this function and so I copied and pasted the function with it's variables into Google Gemini and see what it came back as and I believe that I will plan to write the code from scratch to understand what this function is supposed to do or how it's supposed to function afterwards. It is rather amusing that I have to put a prompt from a different AI into an AI that I regularly use. I feel rather ashamed about it, I am rather unsatsified with how much reliance I have with AI as I do not like using AI. 

Upon further discussion with my teammates, AI was brought up constantly for coming up with examples and also for documentation as well. Despite this, I tried my best to refrain from using AI with the README file as I believe that this is one of the few documents that does not need to be used with AI. My rule of thumb with AI is that if I am able to do it myself and I have the time to do it myself then I will not need to use AI. I need to consider times in which I will not be able to rely on AI for work, so this is why I try to only use AI when I absolutely need to. 

 In the future, I believe I will handle any task such as documentation or formatting without the reliance of AI but since I am rather poor at coding, I will need to use AI to learn how functions work or at least know how the framework of the code provided will function if possible. 

 Week 6:
 
 So it has been a while since I've done anything for INST326 but when we returned with the Week 6 excerises, I've had an incredibly hard time with the assignment. I had to nearly rely on AI in the assignment on almost every excerise as I was havign such a hard time with coming up with the structure of the classes whether if one variable should be included inside the __init__ function or not due to whether if the functions included are either a classmethod or a staticmethod. 

 However I have learned a lot from the AI otherwise as I saw a pattern with each of the examples that they provide for both classmethod and staticmethod in particular. In fact I asked the AI straight on what the difference is. I might like the example that the AI provided better than the lecture examples as what the AI gave me was that classmethod was functioned as a function that checked for a condition that was incorporated within the class itself whereas staticmethod was demonstrated as a formula. 
 
 The connection I made with staticmethod was that like a formula, a formula does not remember information, it is only a way of processing information. So I made the connection that staticmethod is a procedure in which the infromation that is put into the class is already included in the function itself. Whereas with classmethod, it's more of like if the class was the one that stored the information. I find that this concept in Python to be a little harder than what we have covered weeks prior, the excerises do not help as they do not have a good setup to allow for setup to happen. 

 Outside of this class, I could recall that I might have used AI to verify some functions or some material in a different class, but have not used it as a crutch like how I have been using it in this class. 

 More on Projects, my group is planning on using AI to have it sort the 20 functions created into the provided classes that we will have. We might even ask the AI to repurpose the inputs and make sure that the functions line up with each other. So that the classes can be able to be functional as a unit rather than as fragments. 

 Week 7:

 There is not really much noteworthy about my usage of AI. This week was not much different from the other weeks other than the fact that this weeks' excerises are much worse designed than the last week design and I suspect that it is because that the excerises were written by AI. One of the TAs that I went in contact with suspected as such as the excerises were not made with intution in mind. I have to share my dissapointment in these excerises in that the earlier weeks have me be able to do the questions without much usage of the AI but it seems that I have to rely on AI more and more as the excerises go on because the assignments are designed poorly. 

 As for the group project, we were able to get it done through having the AI select our functions and then we were able to integrate them together and create the instance functions as such. 